<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->
The [[autoload]] in the [[NetBeans]] module system world means that certain module is turned on when ''needed''. In contrast to regular modules which require some manual action (user locating a module and activating it) to turn them on, the [[autoload]] modules are opaque for users and managed solely by the infrastructure. As soon as there is some module needing (by dependency or require/needs token) an [[autoload]] module, the infrastructure enables it.

In the [[Netigso|OSGi]] mode, the meaning of [[autoload]] remains as close as the original meaning. The bundle JAR is registered to the underlaying [[OSGi]] framework, but it is not ''started'' until there is some NetBeans module which would depend on the bundle. If there is no such [[NetBeans]] module, the [[OSGi]] bundle remains in ''installed'' state (or ''resolved''?).

The [[autoload]] mode is most suitable for [[OSGi]] bundles which shall be left in the full control of the [[OSGi]] container. For example there can be other [[OSGi]] bundles which may later ''start'' such bundles. Such enablement is outside of control of the [[NetBeans]] module system and is temporary (on subsequent launch of the system the module remains [[autoload]]).

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Jtulach 
on 2010-07-16T09:32:24Z.

