<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

====Looking at the UI how do I find a module that implements a menu item?====

Looking at text in IDE such as a menu item, window title, node display name, etc. you may want to change it. But first you need to find where in the code this string is produced. It is very easy to find if you add the following switch into your <tt>.../etc/netbeans.conf</tt>:

<pre>
-J-Dorg.openide.util.NbBundle.DEBUG=true
</pre>

If you use this switch all strings loaded from <tt>Bundle.properties</tt> files using <tt>org.openide.util.NbBundle</tt> will have two numbers appended to them. The first number identifies the bundle file. Look for this number in the IDE log to find the location of the properties file that provides this string.

Another handy trick: in a built source tree, run

<pre>
ant index-layer-paths
</pre>

to see which module (by code name) contributes each layer file (or folder),
including menu items and so on.
You can also just look at the trunk version of this file
[http://deadlock.netbeans.org/hudson/job/nbms-and-javadoc/lastStableBuild/artifact/nbbuild/build/generated/layers.txt here].

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Admin 
on 2009-11-06T15:44:35Z.

