<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===Can I add or remove children of a node on the fly?===

Yes.  Have your node subclass [http://www.netbeans.org/download/dev/javadoc/org-openide-nodes/org/openide/nodes/AbstractNode.html AbstractNode]
or whatever else you like.

'''NB 6 > m9 Specific''':
Implement <tt>ChildFactory</tt>.  To create the <tt>Children</tt> object for your Node, pass it to <tt>Children.create()</tt>.  When the child list needs updating, call <tt>refresh()</tt> on your <tt>ChildFactory</tt>.  Its <tt>createKeys</tt> method will be called again and you can update the set of key objects as needed;  Nodes for objects that remain in the list of keys will simply continue to exist;  additions and removals will be handled.

'''NB 5 And Earlier''':
Have your <tt>Children</tt> object subclass [http://www.netbeans.org/download/dev/javadoc/org-openide-nodes/org/openide/nodes/Children.Keys.html Children.Keys].
As needed, call <tt>setKeys()</tt> on the <tt>Children.Keys</tt> object.
Just by passing a larger or smaller (or reordered) list of keys, you will be adding or removing (or reordering) children.

Do not ''ever'' try to add/remove children from a node you
did not create (unless it has an API that explicitly gives you permission to do that); occasionally
people try to add child nodes to nodes for things like Java files.  If it works at all it's by accident.

--------

Applies to: NetBeans 4.0, 4.1, 5.0

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Admin 
on 2009-11-06T15:36:07Z.

