<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How do I set the version number?===

There are two ways to set the version number shown in the Help... About dialog.

* The easy way is to set the system property <tt>netbeans.buildnumber</tt> to some value in your application.  
* The harder way is to put this key/value <tt>currentVersion=My Product 1.2.3</tt> into the file named <tt>"branding/modules/org-netbeans-core.jar/org/netbeans/core/ui/Bundle.properties"</tt> below your suite, then rebuild and run.
* In NB 6.5 and later is the file location different: <tt>"branding/core/core.jar/org/netbeans/core/startup/Bundle.properties"</tt>


===How do I set the version number automatically in maven-based applications?===

Within your branding-module use Maven placeholders in Bundle.properties and  within the pom.xml filter the bundle by the maven-resources-plugin.

'''Note:''' Some of the files below are ignored by default in version control by Netbeans so you might need to add them to preserve the changes.

src/main/nbm-branding/core/core.jar/org/netbeans/core/startup/Bundle.properties:
<pre>
currentVersion=My app ${project.version}
LBL_splash_window_title=Starting My app ${project.version}
</pre>

src/main/nbm-branding/modules/org-netbeans-core-windows.jar/org/netbeans/core/windows/view/ui/Bundle.properties:
<pre>
CTL_MainWindow_Title=My app ${project.version}
CTL_MainWindow_Title_No_Project=My app ${project.version}
</pre>

src/main/nbm-branding/modules/org-netbeans-core.jar/org/netbeans/core/ui/Bundle.properties:
<pre>
LBL_ProductInformation=My app ${project.version}
</pre>


pom.xml:
<pre>
    <build>
        <resources>
            <resource>
                <directory>${basedir}/src/main/nbm-branding</directory>
                <!-- f.e. allow replacing ${project.version} in all property files below src/main/nbm-branding -->
                <includes>
                    <include>**/*.properties</include>
                </includes>
                <filtering>true</filtering>
                <targetPath>${basedir}/target/filtered-nbm-branding</targetPath>
            </resource>
        </resources>
        <plugins>
            <plugin>
                <groupId>org.codehaus.mojo</groupId>
                <artifactId>nbm-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <configuration>
                    <!-- use previously filtered branding sources -->
                    <brandingSources>${basedir}/target/filtered-nbm-branding</brandingSources>
                </configuration>
            </plugin>
            <!-- ... -->
        </plugins>
    </build>
</pre>

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqVersionNumber , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Javydreamercsw 
on 2017-02-01T14:34:50Z.

