<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

====What are some of the hooks in the application's lifecycle I can plug into?====

One major difference between developing a Platform application and a monolithic Java application is that there is no <tt>main</tt> method.  This sometimes leaves developers wondering where they can insert their own code.  This FAQ entry describes some places where this is possible.

Although a bit drastic for most cases, you can
replace the main class used to start NetBeans
([[DevFaqPlatformAppAuthStrategies]])
with your own class and then delegate back to NetBeans' normal main class.
This offers you a hook early in the startup sequence without having to modify the launchers or shell scripts.

Any module may provide a [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-modules/org/openide/modules/ModuleInstall.html ModuleInstall] implementation.  The <tt>validate</tt> method will be called before your module is even loaded, so it is the first module-level hook available in the startup sequence.  Note that many services and classes offered by the platform are unlikely to be initialized at this point.

A short time afterwards, the <tt>restored</tt> method will be called on each <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> class.
More services and classes will be initialized at this point than with the <tt>validate</tt> method, but the GUI will probably not yet be realized.
You can post some code to be executed when the UI is fully loaded like this:

<pre>
@Override public void restored() {
    WindowManager.getDefault().invokeWhenUIReady(new Runnable() {
        public void run() {
            // any code here will be run with the UI is available
            SomeTopComponent.findInstance().open();
        }
    });
}
</pre>

The <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> class offers two methods which let you plug into the exit sequence.
The <tt>closing</tt> method is called first and requires that you return a boolean value.
If <tt>true</tt>, then your module agrees to be closed,
but if <tt>false</tt>, then you will prevent the exit sequence from continuing.
The <tt>close</tt> method is called after all <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> classes return <tt>true</tt> from the <tt>closing</tt> method
and is the final hook in which modules can participate in the application's lifecycle.

Note that providing a <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> class will increase total startup time a little,
even if you have taken care to execute any long-running tasks from its methods in a background thread.
It is always preferable to register objects declaratively,
and/or run procedural code when it is first needed rather than eagerly.

Another major class in platform development is the [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-windows/org/openide/windows/TopComponent.html TopComponent] class.
It offers several methods which allow you to hook into its lifecycle.

Here are some events you can hook into for when a <tt>TopComponent</tt> is opened:

* <tt>JComponent.addNotify</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentOpened</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentShowing</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentActivated</tt>

When you set focus on a <tt>TopComponent</tt>, the <tt>componentActivated</tt> method is called.
Likewise, the <tt>componentDeactivated</tt> method is called when focus is moved away from that <tt>TopComponent</tt>.

Here are some events you can hook into for when a <tt>TopComponent</tt> is closed:

* <tt>TopComponent.canClose</tt>
* <tt>JComponent.removeNotify</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentHidden</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentDeactivated</tt>
* <tt>TopComponent.componentClosed</tt>

(The exact sequence in which the opening/closing hooks are invoked is not documented or guaranteed to remain constant.)

Note that you can return <tt>false</tt> from <tt>TopComponent.canClose</tt> to prevent the <tt>TopComponent</tt> from being closed at all.

-----

Applies to: NetBeans 6.5 and later

====Further reading ====
You can get more details along with code examples [http://wiki.netbeans.org/BookNBPlatformCookbookCH01#Module_Installer here].

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqAppLifecycleHooks , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Javydreamercsw 
on 2012-07-31T13:15:59Z.

