<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===What are File Attributes?===
[[DevFaqFileObject| FileObjects]] have ''attributes''.  These are ad-hoc key-value
pairs which can be associated with a file and persist across shutdown and restart.

Attributes are routinely used in the [[DevFaqModulesLayerFile| module XML files]] which define the initial contents of the [[DevFaqSystemFilesystem| system filesystem]].  They are used to providing additional configuration data for files, such as declaring sorting order or the path to an icon file.

Attributes are perfectly safe to use freely in <code>layer.xml</code> files.

In pre-4.0 NetBeans, they were relatively commonly used for user files on disk.  They still may be used for user files, but this is now discouraged - the infrastructure has been changed to store all attributes in the [[DevFaqUserDir| userdir]] rather than sprinking <tt>.nbattrs</tt> files in directories all over the user's disk.  Since they are now stored in a central location, the more attributes there are, the longer it takes to find attributes for any given file.  Using attributes for user files ''on disk'' has negative performance implications.

See <tt>[http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-filesystems/org/openide/filesystems/FileObject.html#getAttribute(java.lang.String) FileObject.getAttribute]</tt> and
<tt>[http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-filesystems/org/openide/filesystems/FileObject.html#setAttribute(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.Object) FileObject.setAttribute]</tt>.

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqFileAttributes , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Tboudreau 
on 2010-02-19T01:50:59Z.

