<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===Where is <tt>TopManager</tt>? I'm trying to do the examples from the O'Reilly book===

The O'Reilly book is old (written between 2001 and 2002) - the chapters on architectural background will still work, but many of the examples won't.

The generation of NB it was written for is from before Lookup (see [[DevFaqLookup | DevFaqLookup]]) was in use. <tt>TopManager</tt> was a class with a bunch of static methods for getting service objects.
It is now gone.

For pretty much everything available via <tt>TopManager</tt>, simply take the class you were looking for and try <tt>SomeClass.getDefault()</tt> - that's typically the modern way to do this sort of thing.  <tt>TopManager</tt> caused a tangle of interdependencies between different APIs that it was very desirable to remove.

If you were calling <tt>TopManager.getDefault().getPlaces().nodes().projectDesktop()</tt> in a NetBeans 3.x based application, there is no direct equivalent in NB 4.0 and later.  Rather, there is a rich set of project-related APIs which can be used for various purposes. As a rule, there is no 1-to-1 conversion from the above idiom to NB 4.0+; the affected O'Reilly examples would need to be rewritten to make sense today.

----
Applies to: NetBeans 4.0+

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Admin 
on 2009-11-06T16:02:29Z.

