<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===What is a Mode in the Windowing System?===

"Mode" refers to "docking mode".  A Mode is a place in a main window, a place between splitters. Separate "floating" window is also backed by Mode. Mode is usually visually represented by a tabbed container.  Programmatically it is represented by the class <tt>org.openide.windows.Mode</tt>

Think of a <tt>Mode</tt> as synonymous with a one of the tabbed containers you see in the IDE's main window.  The name "Mode" is historical, and a bit unfortunate.  When you hear "Mode," think tabbed container and you'll be fine.

'''A Mode is ''not'' a GUI component'''.  There is no legitimate programmatic way to fetch the component that represents a Mode on-screen, and the windowing system makes no guarantees about what that component is.

Modes can contain one or more [[DevFaqWindowsTopComponent| TopComponent]]s.  They may be visible or non-visible at any given time.

The [[DevFaqCustomWindowMode]] page has a visual representation of the available modes, and http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-windows/org/openide/windows/doc-files/api.html has details about the contents of wstcref and settings files.

===Pre-Defined Modes===
NetBeans defines six modes in core.ui:
*topSlidingSide
*rightSlidingSide
*leftSlidingSide
*bottomSlidingSide
*explorer
*properties

NetBeans defines additional modes in other places:
*commonpalette
*output
*navigator
*editor
*CssPreviewTCWsmode

===Docking a TopComponent into a Mode===
To dock a TopComponent into the 'editor' mode:
<pre>
Mode myMode = WindowManager.getDefault().findMode("editor");
TopComponent myTopComponent = WindowManager.getDefault().findTopComponent("MyTopComponent");
myMode.dockInto(myTopComponent);
</pre>
''The ID string of the TopComponent can usually be found in that TopComponent's Java file where it gets registered using annotations, or in the layer.xml.
''

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Maehem 
on 2012-11-13T01:09:52Z.

