<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

====How do I adjust the initial size/position of the main window?====

The default initial size of an application based on NetBeans platform is 90% of the whole screen area and the main window is also centered. These defaults can be redefined quite easily:

* make sure your module has implementation dependency on Core - Windows module, when using NetBeans 6.9 you can use 'weight' attribute instead of implementation dependency.
* copy file ''WindowManager.wswmgr'' from Core - Windows module into the source folder of your own module (you'll find it in folder ''core.windows\src\org\netbeans\core\windows\resources\windowmanager'')
* reference the copied file in your module's XML Layer:
<pre>
    <folder name="Windows2">
        <file name="WindowManager.wswmgr" url="WindowManager.wswmgr"/>
    </folder>
</pre>
* now you can specify either size relative to the size of the whole screen area (the main window will be centered then) which will work on any screen resolution:
<pre>
    <main-window> 
        <joined-properties centered-horizontally="true" centered-vertically="true"
                           relative-width="0.5" relative-height="0.5" />
        <separated-properties centered-horizontally="true" relative-y="0.1"
                           relative-width="0.8" relative-height="0.08" />
    </main-window>
</pre>
The snippet from ''windowmanager.wswmgr'' above makes the default main window size to be half of the whole screen area.

* or you can specify exact size and location in pixels:
<pre>
    <main-window>
      <joined-properties x="0" y="0"   width="800"   height="600"
                  relative-x="0.0"   relative-y="0.0"   relative-width="0.0"   relative-height="0.0"   centered-horizontally="false"   centered-vertically="false"
                  maximize-if-width-below="0"   maximize-if-height-below="0"   frame-state="6"/>
     <separated-properties   x="160"   y="116"   width="1280"   height="93"
	   relative-x="0.0"   relative-y="0.0"   relative-width="0.0"   relative-height="0.0"   centered-horizontally="false"   centered-vertically="false"   frame-state="0" />
  </main-window>
</pre>
The snippet from ''windowmanager.wswmgr'' above opens the main window in the upper left corner of the screen and makes its size 800x600 pixels.

* you can safely ignore ''separated-properties'' part, those properties were used for SDI mode which is no longer supported.
* keep the rest of ''windowmanager.wswmgr'' as it was

'''Note:''' This way you can also define the default main window state - maximized/minimized/restored, see [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/awt/Frame.html#setExtendedState(int) JavaDoc] for possible values.

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqInitialMainWindowSize , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Simpatico 
on 2010-11-02T01:43:02Z.

