<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How can code in one module be notified when other modules are loaded or unloaded?===

Let's begin by stating that you probably do not ''need'' to know when other modules are loaded or unloaded.
The module system takes care of dependency management for you,
so your module should never be loaded unless all of its stated dependencies are loaded too.

The normal means of communicating between modules about available services
(which you could consider ''indirect dependencies'') is using the Lookup API.
If what you really wanted was to know when a ''service'' became available,
you do not need to listen to module load or unload events as such;
which module hosts the service is not of direct interest.
Instead:
# Define a service <tt>some.Interface</tt> in some module.
# Implement that interface using <tt>some.Implementation</tt> in some other module. Register it with <tt>@ServiceProvider(service=Interface.class)</tt>.
# In some module consuming the service, use
  import some.Interface;
  // ...
  private static final Lookup.Result<Interface> services =
      Lookup.getDefault().lookupResult(Interface.class);
  static {
      services.addLookupListener(new LookupListener() {
          public void resultChanged(LookupEvent ev) {
              // some module was loaded or unloaded!
          }
      });
  }
  // ...
  for (Interface service : services.allInstances()) {
      // use a currently available service
  } 

If you simply want to run some code when ''your'' module loads or unloads,
registering an instance of
[http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-modules/org/openide/modules/ModuleInstall.html ModuleInstall]
will do the trick.
There is even a wizard in the IDE for setting this up.

But in the very rare case that you want to be notified when ''other'' modules are loaded or unloaded,
it is possible because:
# You can use [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-util/org/openide/util/Lookup.Result.html Lookup.Result] to listen to changes in the contents of a <tt>Lookup</tt>, even the global lookup.
# Every module installs an instance of [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-modules/org/openide/modules/ModuleInfo.html ModuleInfo] into the default <tt>Lookup</tt> so the module system (or other code) can find out details about the module including its code name base, version numbers and display name.

By using these two facts together, it is possible to listen to changes in the installed modules by running code like this at some point in the application's lifecycle ([[DevFaqAppLifecycleHooks]]):

  final Lookup.Result<ModuleInfo> result =
      Lookup.getDefault().lookupResult(ModuleInfo.class);
  result.addLookupListener(new LookupListener() {
      public void resultChanged(LookupEvent event) {
          // it seems a module was installed or removed
      }
  });

Once you detect that a module has been created you may also want to register a <tt>PropertyChangeListener</tt> and listen to <tt>ModuleInfo.PROP_ENABLED</tt>.
(A module present in the installation will provide a <tt>ModuleInfo</tt> but <tt>isEnabled</tt> might be false if it is not currently loaded.)

----
Applies to: NetBeans 6.7 and later

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Jglick 
on 2009-12-03T14:18:59Z.

