<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===Creating Node Subclasses===

Nodes are useful for many things beyond just representing files.  If you just need a placeholder <tt>Node</tt>, you do not need a subclass - just instantiate an <tt>AbstractNode</tt> - despite its name, <tt>AbstractNode</tt> is not an abstract class.  For example:

<pre>
AbstractNode nue = new AbstractNode (Children.LEAF);
nue.setDisplayName ("Please wait...");
nue.setIcon (Utilities.loadImage ("path/in/jar/to/image.gif"));
return nue;
</pre>


If you are creating [[DevFaqWhatIsANode| Node]]s, you will typically deal with one of four things

* [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-nodes/org/openide/nodes/AbstractNode.html AbstractNode] - create a Node which represents anything you want - you will implement all its logic, provide children, etc.  Typically most logic goes in the Children object. 
* [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-nodes/org/openide/nodes/BeanNode.html BeanNode] - a very convenient Node subclass, which can represent any JavaBean as a Node and expose its bean properties as Property objects that can be edited on the property sheet
* [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-nodes/org/openide/nodes/FilterNode.html FilterNode] - a Node subclass that proxies another Node.  You can subclass this to take an existing Node (possibly representing a file on disk or in the [[DevFaqSystemFilesystem| system filesystem ]] and keep most of its attributes, but provide different actions or display name or icons or properties
* [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-loaders/org/openide/loaders/DataNode.html DataNode] - a Node subclass specific to editing files.  If you are writing a module that adds support for a new file type (such as <tt>.svg</tt> files), you will write a <tt>DataNode</tt> subclass to give files of that type icons, display names, and possibly provide access to the file's content

Note that if you just want to write context sensitive code, not provide your own Nodes, you may be able to do it without a dependency on the Nodes API, using [[DevFaqTrackGlobalSelection| Utilities.actionsGlobalContext()]].

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqNodeSubclass , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Tboudreau 
on 2010-01-24T05:48:37Z.

