<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How do I run some code when my module starts/loads/unloads?===

To run some code when your module is loaded, and basically every time the IDE starts and your module is enabled, simply create a subclass of <tt>org.openide.modules.ModuleInstall</tt> and override the <tt>restored()</tt> method. Bear in mind that this is being executing during the time the IDE/platform is starting up. You should limit the work you do here to that which is absolutely necessary.

Once the class is created, you must declare it in your module's <tt>manifest.mf</tt> file, like so:

<pre>
OpenIDE-Module-Install: org/netbeans/modules/editor/EditorModule.class
</pre>

Likewise, to execute code when the IDE is shutting down, you can override the <tt>close()</tt> method. This method of <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> is called when the IDE is shutting down, contrary to the <tt>closing()</tt> method, which is called to alert the module that the IDE is about to shut down. However, another module may veto the shutdown by returning <tt>false</tt> from the <tt>closing()</tt> method, so the <tt>close()</tt> method is best for performing any cleanup work for your module.

You can simply use '''File > New File > Module Development | Module Installer''' to create the <tt>ModuleInstall</tt> class and its registration in the manifest.

----
Applies to: NetBeans 6.5 and later

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Jglick 
on 2009-12-03T13:43:29Z.

