<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How is MimeLookup composed?===

In order to get [[DevFaqEditorWhatIsMimeLookup| MimeLookup]] you have to supply
[[DevFaqEditorWhatIsMimePath| MimePath]]. With the default <tt>MimeLookup</tt>
implementation provided by Netbeans the contents of <tt>MimeLookup</tt> is defined by
a hierarchical structure of folders on the system FileSystem. The structure
starts in the <tt>Editors</tt> folder and then follows all the components of the <tt>MimePath</tt> you
have supplied.

For example if you ask for <tt>MimeLookup</tt> for the following <tt>MimePath</tt> of
<tt>text/x-java</tt> you will get <tt>Lookup</tt> with contents from the following
folders:

<pre>
    Editors/text/x-java
    Editors
</pre>

As you can see <tt>MimeLookup</tt> for <tt>text/x-java</tt> contains not only editor
features registered for the <tt>text/x-java</tt> mime type itself, but it also
inherits general features registered for an empty <tt>MimePath</tt> (i.e. in the
root of the hierarchy).

The inheritence algorithm used for composing <tt>MimeLookup</tt> for a given
<tt>MimePath</tt> supports more than just simple inheritance from the root. It also
supports compound mime types such as <tt>text/x-ant+xml</tt> and embedded mime types
such as <tt>text/x-jsp/text/x-java</tt>.

====Compound mime types====

Let's have a look at the <tt>MimeLookup</tt> composition for a compound mime type
<tt>text/x-ant+xml</tt>. The resulting <tt>Lookup</tt> will contain things registered in
the following folders:

<pre>
    Editors/text/x-ant+xml
    Editors/text/xml
    Editors
</pre>

That's the reason why editor features provided by XML modules for general
XML files work also for specialized, but XML-based, files.

====Embedded mime types====

The inheritance hierarchy becomes even more complicated when dealing with embedded mime
types. Let's use a java scriplet inside a JSP page as an example of language embedding.
The <tt>MimePath</tt> for the scriplet is <tt>text/x-jsp/text/x-java</tt> and its <tt>MimeLookup</tt> will
contain features registered in the following folders:

<pre>
    Editors/text/x-jsp/text/x-java
    Editors/text/x-java
    Editors
</pre>

The algorithm for computing the inheritance tree for a particular <tt>MimePath</tt>
combines all the above cases together and works always the same way no matter what
feature you are going to look for in the resulting <tt>MimeLookup</tt>.

--------

Applies to: NetBeans 6.x and with some exceptions also to 5.x

Platforms: All

See also:
[[DevFaqEditorWhatIsMimeLookup| What is MimeLookup?]],
[[DevFaqEditorWhatIsMimePath| What is MimePath?]],
[http://www.netbeans.org/download/dev/javadoc/org-netbeans-modules-editor-mimelookup/index.html MimeLookup API]

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqEditorHowIsMimeLookupComposed , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Vstejskal 
on 2010-06-16T14:05:24Z.

