<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===URIs and URLs===

'''Q:''' What is the difference?

'''A:''' A URL is a kind of URI. URNs such as
<tt>urn:oasis:foo</tt> are URIs but not URLs.

'''Q:''' Should I use <tt>java.net.URI</tt> or <tt>java.net.URL</tt>?

'''A:''' Whichever is more convenient. <tt>URL</tt>s must use a registered
URL protocol and cannot handle URNs; there is slightly more overhead
in making a URL than a URI, but not much. <tt>URI</tt> provides better methods
for relativizing and canonicalizing URLs as well as other operations
on the syntactic structure. To directly load content you need to use a
URL. <tt>URI</tt> seems to have difficulty with the <tt>jar</tt> protocol.

'''Q:''' Can I interconvert <tt>URI</tt>s and <tt>URL</tt>s?

'''A:''' Yes, use <tt>uri.toURL()</tt> and
<tt>URI.create(url.toExternalForm())</tt>.

'''Q:''' Can I interconvert <tt>File</tt>s and <tt>URI</tt>s?

'''A:''' Easily. Use <tt>file.toURI()</tt>. In the other
direction, use <tt>new File(uri)</tt>.

For <tt>URL</tt>s, go through <tt>URI</tt>. ''Never'' use
<tt>file.toURL()</tt>; it does not handle unusual characters
correctly.

''Careful'' with file URLs/URIs denoting directories. NetBeans
APIs generally expect these to end in a slash
(<tt>/</tt>). However <tt>file.toURI()</tt> will not end in a
slash if the file does not currently exist! Be sure to check if the
URI ends in a slash and add one if not, if you in fact know that the
<tt>File</tt> is intended to represent a directory.

'''Q:''' Can I interconvert <tt>FileObject</tt>s and URLs?

'''A:''' Use <tt>fileObject.getURL()</tt>, or
<tt>URLMapper</tt> methods for more control over the kind of
returned protocol; in the other direction, use
<tt>URLMapper.findFileObject(url)</tt>.

For URIs, go through URL.

'''Q:''' How do <tt>jar</tt> URLs work?

'''A:''' Unlike e.g. <tt>URLClassLoader</tt>, in the NetBeans
APIs <tt>file:/tmp/foo.jar</tt> refers to the raw byte contents of
<tt>foo.jar</tt>. To refer to the root entry of the JAR (e.g. for
use as a classpath entry) you ''must'' use
<tt>jar:file:/tmp/foo.jar!/</tt>. <tt>FileUtil</tt> has
methods (<tt>getArchiveFile</tt>, <tt>getArchiveRoot</tt>, and
<tt>isArchiveFile</tt>) to help you convert between these
representations.

'''Q:''' Which URL protocols are used in NetBeans?

'''A:''' Several, including some custom protocols:

* <tt>file</tt> - for representing files on disk.
* <tt>jar</tt> - for representing entries inside JARs and ZIPs, including the root directory entry.
* <tt>nbres</tt> - a resource loaded from a NetBeans module (or technically the cross-module class loader), e.g. <tt>nbres:/org/netbeans/modules/foo/resources/foo.dtd</tt> may load the same thing as <tt>jar:file:/opt/netbeans/ide4/modules/org-netbeans-modules-foo.jar!/org/netbeans/modules/foo/resources/foo.dtd</tt>.
* <tt>nbresloc</tt> - same, but transparently localized and branded according to the usual conventions, e.g. <tt>nbresloc:/org/netbeans/modules/foo/resources/foo.html</tt> may actually load the same thing as <tt>nbres:/org/netbeans/modules/foo/resources/foo''nb''ja.html</tt>.
* <tt>nbdocs</tt> - same as <tt>nbresloc</tt> but also searches in <tt>docs/</tt> subfolders of installation directories, e.g. <tt>nbdocs:/org/netbeans/modules/usersguide/ide.css</tt> may work like <tt>file:/opt/netbeans/ide4/docs/org/netbeans/modules/usersguide/ide.css</tt>.
* <tt>nbinst</tt> - loads installation files using <tt>InstalledFileLocator</tt> in installation directories, e.g. <tt>nbinst:///modules/ext/some-lib.jar</tt> may load the same thing as <tt>file:/opt/netbeans/ide4/modules/ext/some-lib.jar</tt>.
* <tt>nbfs</tt> - refers to a file object. As of NetBeans 4.0 there are no user-mounted filesystems so this is only useful to refer to file objects in the system filesystem (XML layers). For example, <tt>nbfs:/SystemFileSystem/Templates/Other/html.html</tt> refers to an HTML file templates installed in the IDE.

Also note that, unlike <code>java.net.URL</code>, <code>URI.equals()</code> does not make a network connection to determine equality.  Never put URLs into a HashSet or similar equality-testing collection for this reason.

-------

Applies to: NetBeans 4.0, 4.1, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.1, 6.5, 6.7

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqUriVsUrl , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Tboudreau 
on 2010-01-24T05:45:04Z.

