<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How do I create a patch for a preexisting NetBeans module?===

If you need to patch an existing module, you can place a JAR file relative to the original.
For example, to patch <tt>ide/modules/org-openide-example.jar</tt>
you make a JAR like <tt>ide/modules/patches/org-openide-example/mypatch.jar</tt>.
The <tt>mypatch</tt> part of your JAR file patch can be named anything you like.
The JAR file should only contain those classes you want to patch.
It does not need a manifest, though an empty manifest is harmless.

The patch must be in the same cluster as the original. ({{iz|69794}})
If you want to create an NBM containing a patch,
you must ensure it will be installed in the same cluster
(use the <tt>nbm.target.cluster</tt> property),
but note that you cannot test such a dummy module as part of a module suite
(since this property is interpreted only by Plugin Manager).
If you are distributing a complete application including a patch to the NB Platform,
you will need to either manually preinstall the patch JAR in your copy of the Platform;
or override your <tt>build-zip</tt> target to include the JAR in the final ZIP
(in which case testing using '''Run Project''' will not have the patch active).

----
Applies to: NetBeans 6.x

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Jglick 
on 2010-06-14T20:13:42Z.

