<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How to specify post-install code in [[NBM]]===

[[NBM]] allows to declare its own custom code in [[NBM]] archive. This code is called-back by <tt>Autoupdate/Updater</tt> at the end of installation of [[NBM]] into IDE.

<pre>

your_module.nbm
     |   
     +- Info
     |   |
     |   +--- info.xml
     |
    +- netbeans
        |
        +--- modules...
    |
    +-main
        |
        +--- main.properties
        +--- <custom code>

</pre>

If Autoupdate/Updater detects <tt>main</tt> directory in the NBM archive then <tt>main.properties</tt> descriptor contains information about the own code. <tt>Updater</tt> runs specified Java code according to these properties.

The properties expected in ''main.properties'' are:
{| border=1 class="simple"
!Property
!Value
|- 
| mainClass
| name of the main class, run after module installation from the NBM
|- 
| relativeClassPath
| classpath elements, may contain more elements
|- 
| jvm.parameters
| properties for JVM, arguments inserted before the main class name
|- 
| mainClass.arguments
| more arguments for the main class, added after the main class name
|}


The run command is built on top of properties above.

[[#1 | #1]] '''Problem''': There was a bug: variable <tt>%IDE_USER%</tt> contained as same value as <tt>%IDE_HOME%</tt> i.e. both links to the platform cluster directory and %IDE_HOME% '''didn't''' contain user directory as should be. It was fixed in NetBeans 6.5 platform.

The properties can contain several special variables which <tt>Autoupdate</tt> replaces by real values:
{| border=1 class="simple"
!Variable
!Value
|- 
| %IDE_HOME%
| platform directory
|- 
| %IDE_USER%
| user directory [[1 | 1]]
|- 
| %FS%
| file separator char
|- 
| %PS%
| path separator char
|- 
| %JAVA_HOME%
| the current Java home
|}


====Example====
* Download and unzip a project [[Media:samplepostinstall_DevFaqNbmPostInstall.zip| samplepostinstall_DevFaqNbmPostInstall.zip]]
* Go into <tt>samplepostinstall/main</tt> directory
* In <tt>main</tt> directory is main class <tt>Hello</tt> which should use most of possibilities of ''post-install'' hooks
:* Using properties <tt>mainClass</tt>, <tt>relativeClassPath</tt>, <tt>jvm.parameters</tt> etc.
:* Reads all special variables like <tt>%IDE_HOME%</tt>, <tt>%JAVA_HOME%</tt> etc.
:* Opens some GUI
:* Runs a JDK demo

To see that <tt>samplepostinstall</tt> project in action
# download [[Media:org-netbeans-samplepostinstall_DevFaqNbmPostInstall.nbm| NBM]]
# run NetBeans IDE (6.0 or newer)
# invoke ''Tools|Plugins'' and switch to ''Download'' tab
# add the downloaded NBM
# install it and then watch post-install hook what will be executed while installing that plugin


-------------------------------------------

''I'm not author of this feature, it's only my investigation.''

Do not hesitate to contact me on mailto:jrechtacek@netbeans.org if you have any question.
{{attachments|
* [[Media:org-netbeans-samplepostinstall_DevFaqNbmPostInstall.nbm]]
* [[Media:samplepostinstall_DevFaqNbmPostInstall.zip]]}}

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Jtulach 
on 2011-07-14T09:51:25Z.

