<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How do I add an action to a the popup menu of the Java editor?===

The simplest way is to run New Action Wizard (File > New... > Module Development > Action) which creates an action for you and registers it in your <tt>layer.xml</tt>.
# On the first tab, choose '''Conditionally Enabled''' action and select <tt>EditorCookie</tt> as the cookie class. 
# On the second tab, check '''Editor Context Menu Item''' and choose MIME type (<tt>text/x-java</tt> in this case) and position.

OR
use
<pre>@ActionReference(path="Editors/text/x-java/Popup")</pre> for an action with the <tt>EditorCookie</tt> as context object
<hr/>

===See also:===
* [[DevFaqActionAddToContextMenuOfAllEditors|How do I add an action to the context menu of all editors?]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddFileMime| How do I add an action to a file of a given mime-type? ]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddFolder| How do I add an action to a folder? ]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddEditorPopup| How do I add an action to the text-editor popup menu? ]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddMenuBar| How do I add an action to the NetBeans menu bar? ]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddToolBar| How do I add an action to the NetBeans tool bar? ]]
* [[DevFaqActionAddDataObject| How do I add an action to my custom node? ]]

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from http://wiki.netbeans.org/DevFaqActionAddEditorPopup , 
that was last modified by NetBeans user Markiewb 
on 2014-12-31T11:45:54Z.

