<!--

    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

-->

===How do module dependencies and class loading work?===

The nuts and bolts of module dependencies are as follows:
* Modules can load classes from modules they depend on.   They have to declare a dependency on them.
* NetBeans does not care about things like the <tt>CLASSPATH</tt> environment variable - it knows how to find modules in an installation of NetBeans, and enforces dependencies between them.

What this means is that if
* Module B tries to use a class from module A, but module B does not ''explicitly state'' that it depends on A, or...
* Module B tries to use a class from module A, and it ''does'' declare a dependency on Module A, ''but'' the package that class is in is not in the list of packages A says other modules can touch...
then a <tt>NoClassDefFoundException</tt> will be thrown at runtime.
(If you even get that far - the module build harness will refuse to even compile module B in such cases.)

An exception to the second item is that if Module B declares an ''implementation dependency'' on module A, then it will have access to the full set of classes.
Normally you should not need to do this,
and anyway it will then be hard to upgrade B independently of A.

Modules can also load classes from libraries - JAR files that are packaged with the module (see [[DevFaqHowPackageLibraries | DevFaqHowPackageLibraries]]).
Some points to remember about libraries:
* They are delivered to the user inside the NBM file if they are not part of a full application based on NetBeans.
* When unpacked, the module will end up in <tt>$SOMECLUSTER/modules/</tt> and any libraries will end up in <tt>$SOMECLUSTER/modules/ext/</tt>.
* The module will use the library by having an entry in its manifest <tt>Class-Path: ext/someLibrary.jar</tt> the same way any JAR would.

If you are using the IDE's module development support,
you will manage module dependencies in the properties dialog for your module
(or the '''Libraries''' node in the '''Projects''' tab).
This just modifies <tt>yourmodule/nbproject/project.xml</tt>.
The data saved there is then used to generate the appropriate manifest entries for you.

If you are writing a module that will use some third party libraries,
you probably want to read [[DevFaqWrapperModules | DevFaqWrapperModules]] and also [[DevFaqWhenUseWrapperModule | DevFaqWhenUseWrapperModule]].

For more details, see the [http://bits.netbeans.org/dev/javadoc/org-openide-modules/org/openide/modules/doc-files/classpath.html reference documentation about classloading in NetBeans].

----

Applies to: NetBeans 6.8 and above

===Apache Migration Information===

The content in this page was kindly donated by Oracle Corp. to the
Apache Software Foundation.

This page was exported from , 
that last modified by NetBeans user Rmichalsky 
on 2009-12-02T13:40:56Z.

